# Kinematic Modeling


# Dynamic Modeling


# Vehicle Modeling
## Longitudinal
Main inputs are Throttling and Braking and Latereral Dynamics
Output is Forward Velocity

**Logitudinal Dynamics (Forces)** - the balance of dynamic forces acting in the longitudinal direction.
- the main output is the Longitudinal forces for the kinematics
- the fidelity of the model depends on the requirements of the simulation environment.

1. draw a freebody diagram of the forces acting on the car
2. Calculate a unified equation of the longitudinal dynamics.
   $$ mx = F_{xf} + F_{xr} - F_{aero} - R_{xf} - R_{xr} - mg*sin(\alpha) $$
3. simplify by adding the Forces Fx and the Rolling Ristances Rx, assume sin(alpha) is small, so replace it alpha.
$$ mx = F_x - F_{aero} - R_x - mg\alpha $$
4. define the forces.
    Resistance Load
    $$ F_{load} $$
    **Aerodynamic Force** - depends on air density, frontal area and on the speed.
    $$ F_{aero} $$
    Rolling Resistance (tire normal force, tire)
    $$ R_x $$

## Lateral
Main Inputs are Steering Wheel and Longitudinal Dynamics
Output is Yaw Rate (for turning)


### Power Train Component Models 
- can be modeled as a series of components
- thes components convert the driver inputs to car wheels

#### What are the typical Components
- wheels, brakes, differential, transmission (gear box), Torque Converter (clutch), Engine (ICE or Electric), Throttle

# Vehicle Actuation
## models describing driver input to vehical motion
### Steering
- a relatively simple mapping is needed for simulation
- but the steering system is more complex
  - a more complex model may be needed if steering commands are very near the "bandwidth" of the steering assembly.
### Forward Motion
- Throttle and brake commands affect torque balanace
- Power can be generated by ICE, Diesel, or Electric.
  - different engines have different rpm/torque graphs.
  - ICE is better in the middle RM, Diesel is consistent toque across RPM, Electric is good at low RPM
Semi-Emperical Model
- an Second Order Differential Equeation that shows torque output at different RMP and throttle angle.
### Braking
- basic functions of brakes
  - shorten stopping distance
  - steerability during braking through ABS
  - stability during braking to avoid overturning
- easy to model and is generally a linear mapping

# Tire Slip and Modeling
- the connection of the vehical to the road
- important to model this
**Tire Slip Angle** 0
**Slip Ratio** - the longitudinal slip
Longitudinal Slip
## Model
Inputs - tire slip angle, slip ratio, normal force, friction, coefficient. additionally if needed, camber angle (the angle between the tire rotation and the road), tire properties.
Outputs - lateral force, longitudinal force
### Types of Models
- Analytical (Brush, Fiala, Linear)
  - low precision, but simple/fast models
  - suitable for control development, but not good for the full operating range of the tire
  - tire physical parameters are explicitly employed
- Numerical
  - higher fidelity, but more difficult to implement
  - many simulators still implement them for more accurate simulation
  - Look up tables instead of mathematical equations
  - no explicit mathematical form
  - geometry and material property of tire are considered
- Parameterized (linear, pacejka, dugoff)
  - needs experiments for each specific tire
  - formed by fitting model with experimental data
  - match experimental data very well
  - used widely for vehicle dynamics simulation studies and control design

# Papers/Resources




## Tire Slip
Moad Kissai, Bruno Monsuez, Adriana Tapus, Didier Martinez. "A new linear tire model with varying parameters". 2017 2nd IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Transportation Engineering (ICITE), Sep 2017, Singapore, Singapore. IEEE, Intelligent Transportation Engineering (ICITE), 2017 2nd IEEE International Conference on. <10.1109/ICITE.2017.8056891>. https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-01690792/

[Tire Model](https://d3c33hcgiwev3.cloudfront.net/Sbj8KCDaEem9HA6xGGaRfg_49fb831020da11e99167b944be537fd0_Tire-model.pdf?Expires%3D1660348800%26Signature%3DN45cCRMuRhVEAPlffsxOXLb4VNE-3UzqFtPA9jzDt-yBI3YsWTilZkurm1rNvtcCmEp2iUQjjrNbIUouKEKJ2~OipiiGqapmajNQWah5gT5pPCGdh2uKCOlRSm-OIhoTguKJpxdhrLFjB8kgCLwOdeU-iEmIYAJFGY7T63jO2RM_%26Key-Pair-Id%3DAPKAJLTNE6QMUY6HBC5A)